[DependencyInjection] Explain how to use the class itself as factory (#18043)
symfony/symfony-docs: service_container/factories.rst

    only depends on the object that is returned by the factory. However,
    the configured class name may be used by compiler passes and therefore
    should be set to a sensible value.
Using the Class as Factory Itself
---------------------------------

> When the static factory method is on the same class as the created instance, the class name can be omitted from the factory declaration.

Author: ```suggestion
When the static factory method is on the same class as the created instance,
the class name can be omitted from the factory declaration.
```

    only depends on the object that is returned by the factory. However,
    the configured class name may be used by compiler passes and therefore
    should be set to a sensible value.

> Using the Class as Factory Itself

Reviewer: missing blank line

> Using the Class as Factory Itself

Author: ```suggestion

Using the Class as Factory Itself
```

---------------------------------

When the static factory method is on the same class as the created instance, the class name can be omitted from the factory declaration.

> of the class itself.

Reviewer: drop

> of the class itself.

Author: ```suggestion
```

Let's suppose the ``NewsletterManager`` class has a ``create()`` method that needs

> to be called to create the object and need a send email address::

Author: ```suggestion
to be called to create the object and need a sender::
```

> to be called to create the object and need a send email address::

Reviewer: a sender

    // src/Email\NewsletterManager.php
    namespace App\Email;

    // ...

    class NewsletterManager
    {
        private string $sender;

        public static function create(string $sender): self
        {
            $newsletterManager = new self();
            $newsletterManager->sender = $sender;
            // ...

            return $newsletterManager;
        }
    }

> You can use the ``factory`` option to define which method of which class must be

Reviewer: You can omit the class on the factory declaration:

    the configured class name may be used by compiler passes and therefore
    should be set to a sensible value.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
Using the Class as Factory Itself
---------------------------------

```

> You can also use the ``factory`` option to create services from static methods

Author: ```suggestion
When the static factory method is on the same class as the created instance, the class name can be omitted from the factory declaration.
```

of the class itself.
Let's suppose the ``NewsletterManager`` class has a ``create()`` method that needs
to be called to create the object and need a send email address::

    // src/Email\NewsletterManager.php
    namespace App\Email;

    // ...

    class NewsletterManager
    {
        private string $sender;

        public static function create(string $sender): self
        {
            $newsletterManager = new self();
            $newsletterManager->sender = $sender;
            // ...

            return $newsletterManager;
        }
    }

You can use the ``factory`` option to define which method of which class must be

> called to create its object. In this case we don't need a dedicated factory class anymore:

Author: ```suggestion
called to create its object:
```

            # ...

            App\Email\NewsletterManager:
                factory: [null, 'create']
                arguments:
                    $sender: 'fabien@symfony.com'

    .. code-block:: xml

        <!-- config/services.xml -->
        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
        <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services"
            xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
            xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services
                https://symfony.com/schema/dic/services/services-1.0.xsd">

            <services>
                <service id="App\Email\NewsletterManager">
                    <factory method="create"/>
                </service>
            </services>
        </container>

    .. code-block:: php

        // config/services.php
        namespace Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\Loader\Configurator;

        use App\Email\NewsletterManager;

        return function(ContainerConfigurator $containerConfigurator) {
            $services = $containerConfigurator->services();

            // Note that we are not using service()
            $services->set(NewsletterManager::class)

>                 ->factory([NewsletterManager::class, 'create']);

Author: ```suggestion
                ->factory([null, 'create']);
```

    the configured class name may be used by compiler passes and therefore
    should be set to a sensible value.

Using the Class as Factory Itself
---------------------------------

When the static factory method is on the same class as the created instance,
the class name can be omitted from the factory declaration.
Let's suppose the ``NewsletterManager`` class has a ``create()`` method that needs

> to be called to create the object and need a sender::

Author: ```suggestion
to be called to create the object and needs a sender::
```

    the configured class name may be used by compiler passes and therefore
    should be set to a sensible value.

Using the Class as Factory Itself
---------------------------------

When the static factory method is on the same class as the created instance,
the class name can be omitted from the factory declaration.
Let's suppose the ``NewsletterManager`` class has a ``create()`` method that needs

> to be called to create the object and need a sender::

Reviewer: needs

Author: really?

Reviewer: yes - the subject is the method, no?

Author: You are right, but needs twice sounds a bit weird maybe

Reviewer: accepts, expects, etc

>     // src/Email\NewsletterManager.php

Reviewer: forward slash before News

Author: ```suggestion
    // src/Email/NewsletterManager.php
```

    namespace App\Email;

    // ...

    class NewsletterManager
    {
        private string $sender;

        public static function create(string $sender): self
        {
            $newsletterManager = new self();
            $newsletterManager->sender = $sender;
            // ...

            return $newsletterManager;
        }
    }

> You can use the ``factory`` option to define which method of which class must be

Author: ```suggestion
You can omit the class on the factory declaration:
```

> called to create its object:

Author: ```suggestion
```

    .. code-block:: yaml

        # config/services.yaml
        services:
            # ...

            App\Email\NewsletterManager:
                factory: [null, 'create']
                arguments:
                    $sender: 'fabien@symfony.com'

    .. code-block:: xml

        <!-- config/services.xml -->
        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
        <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services"
            xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
            xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services
                https://symfony.com/schema/dic/services/services-1.0.xsd">

            <services>
                <service id="App\Email\NewsletterManager">

>                     <!-- Note that we are using the "class" key here, not "service" -->
>                     <factory class="App\Email\NewsletterManager"
>                         method="create"
>                     />
>                 </service>

Author: ```suggestion
                    <factory method="create"/>
                </service>
```

    the configured class name may be used by compiler passes and therefore
    should be set to a sensible value.

> You can also use the ``factory`` option to create services from static methods.

Reviewer: this is what the previous example does already

seeing the link you put in the description, I was expecting to read something about it - aka that the class can be omitted if the static factory method is on the same class than the created instance

> You can also use the ``factory`` option to create services from static methods.

Author: ```suggestion
You can also use the ``factory`` option to create services from static methods
of the class itself.
```

> Lets suppose the ``NewsletterManager`` class has a ``create()`` method that needs

Reviewer: Let's
but I don't get your PR: the existing example (before this one) uses a static method already.

Author: It uses a `NewsletterManagerFactory` class to create a `NewsletterManager` service. I create the `NewlsetterManager` service with the `create` method itself

> Lets suppose the ``NewsletterManager`` class has a ``create()`` method that needs

Author: ```suggestion
Let's suppose the ``NewsletterManager`` class has a ``create()`` method that needs
```

to be called to create the object and need a send email address::

    // src/Email\NewsletterManager.php
    namespace App\Email;

    // ...

    class NewsletterManager
    {
        private string $sender;

>         public static function create(string $sender): NewsletterManager

Author: ```suggestion
        public static function create(string $sender): self
```

    the configured class name may be used by compiler passes and therefore
    should be set to a sensible value.

> You can also use the ``factory`` option to create services from static methods

Reviewer: `When the static factory method is on the same class as the created instance, the class name can be omitted from the factory declaration.`

of the class itself.
Let's suppose the ``NewsletterManager`` class has a ``create()`` method that needs
to be called to create the object and need a send email address::

    // src/Email\NewsletterManager.php
    namespace App\Email;

    // ...

    class NewsletterManager
    {
        private string $sender;

        public static function create(string $sender): self
        {
            $newsletterManager = new self();
            $newsletterManager->sender = $sender;
            // ...

            return $newsletterManager;
        }
    }

You can use the ``factory`` option to define which method of which class must be

> called to create its object. In this case we don't need a dedicated factory class anymore:

Reviewer: You never need a dedicated classe to declare a static method so this sentence doesn't look super useful to me

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        # config/services.yaml
        services:
            # ...

            App\Email\NewsletterManager:
                # the first argument is the class and the second argument is the static method

>                 # note that we omit the '@' prefix when using the class name as the first argument!

Author: ```suggestion
                # note that we omit the '@' prefix when using the class name as the first argument!
                # you can also remove the class name entirely and use 'null' instead
```

>                 factory: ['App\Email\NewsletterManager', 'create']

Reviewer: `factory: [null, 'create']`

                arguments:
                    $sender: 'fabien@symfony.com'

    .. code-block:: xml

        <!-- config/services.xml -->
        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
        <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services"
            xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
            xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services
                https://symfony.com/schema/dic/services/services-1.0.xsd">

            <services>
                <service id="App\Email\NewsletterManager">

>                     <!-- Note that we are using the "class" key here, not "service" -->

Reviewer: should be removed

>                     <factory class="App\Email\NewsletterManager"

Reviewer: `<factory method="create"/>`

                        method="create"
                    />
                </service>
            </services>
        </container>

    .. code-block:: php

        // config/services.php
        namespace Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\Loader\Configurator;

        use App\Email\NewsletterManager;

        return function(ContainerConfigurator $containerConfigurator) {
            $services = $containerConfigurator->services();

            // Note that we are not using service()
            $services->set(NewsletterManager::class)

>                 ->factory([NewsletterManager::class, 'create']);

Reviewer: `->factory([null, 'create']);`

of the class itself.
Let's suppose the ``NewsletterManager`` class has a ``create()`` method that needs
to be called to create the object and need a send email address::

    // src/Email\NewsletterManager.php
    namespace App\Email;

    // ...

    class NewsletterManager
    {
        private string $sender;

        public static function create(string $sender): self
        {
            $newsletterManager = new self();
            $newsletterManager->sender = $sender;
            // ...

            return $newsletterManager;
        }
    }

You can use the ``factory`` option to define which method of which class must be
called to create its object. In this case we don't need a dedicated factory class anymore:

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        # config/services.yaml
        services:
            # ...

            App\Email\NewsletterManager:
                # the first argument is the class and the second argument is the static method
                # note that we omit the '@' prefix when using the class name as the first argument!
                # you can also remove the class name entirely and use 'null' instead

>                 factory: ['App\Email\NewsletterManager', 'create']

Author: ```suggestion
                factory: [null, 'create']
```
